My house is perfect. By great good fortune I have found a housekeeper no less to my mind, a low-voiced, light-footed woman of discreet age, 
strong and deft enough to render me all the service I require, and not afraid of loneliness. She rises very early.
 By my breakfast-time there remains little to be done under the roof save dressing of meals. Very rarely do I hear even a clink of crockery; 
never the closing of a door or window. Oh, blessed silence! My house is perfect. Just large enough to allow the grace of order in domestic circumstance; just that superfluity of inner space,
 to lack which is to be less than at one's ease. The fabric is sound; the work in wood and plaster tells of a more leisurely and a more honest age than ours. The stairs do not creak under my step;
 I am attacked by no unkindly draught; I can open or close a window without muscle-ache. As to such trifles as the color and device of wall-paper, I confess my indifference; be the walls only plain,
 and I am satisfied. The first thing in one's home is comfort; let beauty of detail be added if one has the means, the patience, the eye. 
To me, this little book-room is beautiful, and chiefly because it is home. Through the greater part of life I was homeless. Many places have I lived, 
some which my soul disliked, and some which pleased me well; but never till now with that sense of security which makes a home. At any moment I might have been driven forth by evil accident,
 by disturbing necessity. For all that time did I say within myself: Some day, perchance, I shall have a home; yet the "perchance" had more and more of emphasis as life went on,
 and at the moment when fate was secretly smiling on me, I had all but abandoned hope. I have my home at last. This house is mine on a lease of a score of years. 
So long I certainly shall not live; but, if I did, even so long should I have the money to pay my rent and buy my food. I am no cosmopolite. 
Were I to think that I should die away from England, the thought would be dreadful to me. And in England, this is the place of my choice; this is my home.

Dear son...
孩子…
The day that you see me old and I am already not， have patience and try to understand me …
哪天你看到我日渐老去，身体也渐渐不行，请耐着性子试着了解我……
If I get dirty when eating… if I cannot dress… have patience.
如果我吃的脏兮兮，如果我不会穿衣服……有耐性一点……
Remember the hours I spent teaching it to you.
你记得我曾花多久时间教你这些事吗?
If， when I speak to you，I repeat the same things thousand and one times…
如果，当我一再重复述说
Do not interrupt me… listen to me
同样的事情…不要打断我，听我说….
When you were small， I had to read to you thousand and one times the same story until you get to sleep…
你小时候，我必须一遍又一遍的读着同样的故事，直到你静静睡着……..
When I do not want to have a shower，neither shame me nor scold me…
当我不想洗澡，不要羞辱我也不要责骂我……
Remember when I had to chase you with thousand excuses I invented， in order that you wanted to bath…
你记得小时后我曾编出多少理由，只为了哄你洗澡…..
When you see my ignorance on new technologies… give me the necessary time and not look at me with your mocking smile…
当你看到我对新科技的无知，给我一点时间，不要挂着嘲弄的微笑看着我
I taught you how to do so many things… to eat good， to dress well… to confront life…
我曾教了你多少事情啊….如何好好的吃，好好的穿…如何面对你的生命……
When at some moment I lose the memory or the thread of our conversation…
如果交谈中我忽然失忆不知所云，
let me have the necessary time to remember…
给我一点时间回想…
and if I cannot do it，
如果我还是无能为力，
do not become nervous…　
请不要紧张…..
as the most important thing is not my conversation but surely to be with you and to have you listening to me…
对我而言重要的不是对话，而是能跟你在一起，和你的倾听…..

Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind. These passions, like great winds, have blown me hither and thither, in a wayward course, over a deep ocean of anguish, reaching to the very verge of despair.
三种简单却极其强烈的情感主宰着我的生活：对爱的渴望、对知识的追求、对人类痛苦的难以承受的怜悯之心。这三种情感，像一阵阵飓风一样，任意地将我吹的飘来荡去，越过痛苦的海洋，抵达绝望的彼岸。
I have sought love, first, because it brings ecstasy - ecstasy so great that I would often have sacrificed all the rest of life for a few hours of this joy. I have sought it, next, because it relieves loneliness ? that terrible loneliness in which one shivering consciousness looks over the rim of the world into the cold unfathomable lifeless abyss. I have sought it, finally, because in the union of love I have seen, in a mystic miniature, the prefiguring vision of the heaven that saints and poets have imagined. This is what I sought, and though it might seem too good for human life, this is what ? at least ? I have found.
我寻找爱，首先，因为它令人心醉神迷，这种沉醉是如此美妙，以至于我愿意用余生来换取那几个小时的快乐。我寻找爱，其次是因为它会减轻孤独，置身于那种可怕的孤独中，颤抖的灵魂在世界的边缘，看到冰冷的、死寂的、无底深渊。我寻找爱，还因为在爱水乳?交融时，在一个神秘的缩影中，我见到了先贤和诗人们所想象的、预览的天堂。 这就是我所追求的，尽管对于凡人来说，这好像是一种奢望。但这是我最终找到的。
With equal passion I have sought knowledge. I have wished to understand the hearts of men. I have wished to know why the stars shine. And I have tried to apprehend the Pythagorean power by which number holds sway over the flux. A little of this, but not much, I have achieved.
我曾以同样的热情来追求知识。我希望能理解人类的心灵，希望能知道为什么星星会发光。我也曾经努力理解毕达哥拉斯学派的理论，他们认为数字主载着万物的此消彼长。我了解了一点知识，但是不多。
Love and knowledge, so far as they were possible, led upward toward the heavens. But always pity brought me back to earth. Echoes of cries of pain reverberate in my heart. Children in famine, victims tortured by oppressors, helpless old people a hated burden to their sons, and the whole world of loneliness, poverty, and pain make a mockery of what human life should be. I long to alleviate the evil, but I cannot, and I too suffer.
爱和知识，可以最大可能地，将人带入天堂。可是，怜悯总是将我带回地面。人们因痛苦而发出的哭声在我心中久久回响，那些饥荒中的孩子们，被压迫者摧残的受害者们，被子女视为可憎负担的、无助的老人们，以及那无处不在的孤单、贫穷和无助都在讽刺着人类所本应该有的生活。我渴望能够消除人世间的邪恶，可是力不从心，我自己也同样遭受着它们的折磨。
This has been my life. I have found it worth living, and would gladly live it again if the chance were offered me.
这就是我的生活。我觉得活一场是值得的。如果给我机会的话，我愿意开心地，再活一次。
词汇：

overwhelmingly [???v??w?lm??l?] 压倒性地，不可抵抗地

unbearable [?n?b??r?b?l] 难以承受的

wayward [?we?w?d] 任性的，固执的

miniature [?m?n?t??] 微型的；小规模的